# List of articles for Performance Engineering 

## Load Test Monitoring


## GC (Garbage Collection) Analysis

Garbage Collection (GC) in Java: A Comparison of GC Algorithms
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/garbage-collection-gc-java-comparison-algorithms-pratik-ugale-r1zrc/?trackingId=8ccmD76dTeCS6N2XrUvqIg%3D%3D

Optimizing JVM with G1 Garbage Collector (G1GC)
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/optimizing-jvm-g1-garbage-collector-g1gc-pratik-ugale-fqzsc/?trackingId=8ccmD76dTeCS6N2XrUvqIg%3D%3D

 Optimizing JVM Garbage Collection: Understanding -XX:NewRatio & -XX:SurvivorRatio
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/optimizing-jvm-garbage-collection-understanding-pratik-ugale-dqnlc/?trackingId=8ccmD76dTeCS6N2XrUvqIg%3D%3D

Key GC Metrics for Optimizing JVM Performance
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/key-gc-metrics-optimizing-jvm-performance-pratik-ugale-1ggtc/?trackingId=8ccmD76dTeCS6N2XrUvqIg%3D%3D

Understanding GC Thrashing in Java: Causes and Solutions
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/understanding-gc-thrashing-java-causes-solutions-pratik-ugale-yswic/?trackingId=8ccmD76dTeCS6N2XrUvqIg%3D%3D

Understanding Humongous Objects in G1 Garbage Collection (G1GC)
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/understanding-humongous-objects-g1-garbage-collection-pratik-ugale-fnaec/?trackingId=8ccmD76dTeCS6N2XrUvqIg%3D%3D

 Reducing Full GC in Java: Key Strategies for Better Performance
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/reducing-full-gc-java-key-strategies-better-pratik-ugale-tvjuc/?trackingId=8ccmD76dTeCS6N2XrUvqIg%3D%3D

ZGC (Z Garbage Collector) in Java: Low-Latency Garbage Collection for Large Heaps
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/zgc-z-garbage-collector-java-low-latency-collection-large-ugale-gxesc/?trackingId=8ccmD76dTeCS6N2XrUvqIg%3D%3D

Optimizing Java Performance with G1 Garbage Collector (G1GC)
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/optimizing-java-performance-g1-garbage-collector-g1gc-pratik-ugale-hsdtc/?trackingId=8ccmD76dTeCS6N2XrUvqIg%3D%3D

Part 2 - Java Garbage Collection Process
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/part-2-java-garbage-collection-process-pratik-ugale-nsrrc/?trackingId=8ccmD76dTeCS6N2XrUvqIg%3D%3D

How garbage collection works in Java
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/how-garbage-collection-works-java-pratik-ugale-dgy5c/?trackingId=8ccmD76dTeCS6N2XrUvqIg%3D%3D
 
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## Heap Dump Analysis

Mastering Memory Management in Java: The Power of Heap Dumps
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/mastering-memory-management-java-power-heap-dumps-pratik-ugale-nprec/?trackingId=xjftKepwTi6HeNU3eDV48A%3D%3D

Understanding High Memory Usage vs. Memory Leaks in Java Applications: Real-World Insights
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/understanding-high-memory-usage-vs-leaks-java-real-world-pratik-ugale-jrksc/?trackingId=xjftKepwTi6HeNU3eDV48A%3D%3D

How to Identify and Fix Class Loader Leaks in Java Web Applications: A Step-by-Step Guide
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/how-identify-fix-class-loader-leaks-java-web-guide-pratik-ugale-6ezac/?trackingId=8ccmD76dTeCS6N2XrUvqIg%3D%3D

Unlocking Memory Efficiency with Dominator Trees: A Key to Identifying Memory Leaks
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/unlocking-memory-efficiency-dominator-trees-key-leaks-pratik-ugale-ub7oc/?trackingId=8ccmD76dTeCS6N2XrUvqIg%3D%3D

How you would use heap dumps to investigate and resolve issues related to large objects or arrays consuming excessive memory
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/how-you-would-use-heap-dumps-investigate-resolve-issues-pratik-ugale-m6mbc/?trackingId=8ccmD76dTeCS6N2XrUvqIg%3D%3D

Optimizing Garbage Collection Through Heap Dump Analysis
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/optimizing-garbage-collection-through-heap-dump-analysis-pratik-ugale-ln7bc/?trackingId=8ccmD76dTeCS6N2XrUvqIg%3D%3D


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## Thread dump Analysis
How do you interpret thread dump data in the context of Java's internal thread scheduling (e.g., how the JVM schedules threads)?
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/how-do-you-interpret-thread-dump-data-context-javas-internal-ugale-dkdlc/?trackingId=xjftKepwTi6HeNU3eDV48A%3D%3D

Diagnosing Java NIO Issues Using Thread Dumps: A Comprehensive Guide
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/diagnosing-java-nio-issues-using-thread-dumps-guide-pratik-ugale-301nc/?trackingId=xjftKepwTi6HeNU3eDV48A%3D%3D

Mastering Java Thread Dumps: Solutions to Common JVM Thread Scheduling Challenges
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/mastering-java-thread-dumps-solutions-common-jvm-scheduling-ugale-pafsc/?trackingId=xjftKepwTi6HeNU3eDV48A%3D%3D

Diagnosing Thread Pool Exhaustion Using Thread Dumps: A Comprehensive Guide
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/diagnosing-thread-pool-exhaustion-using-dumps-guide-pratik-ugale-wthpc/?trackingId=xjftKepwTi6HeNU3eDV48A%3D%3D

Mastering Thread Dump Analysis: Key Strategies with Practical Examples
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/mastering-thread-dump-analysis-key-strategies-practical-pratik-ugale-ve2pc/?trackingId=xjftKepwTi6HeNU3eDV48A%3D%3D

Analysing Thread Dumps to Resolve Thread Starvation Issues: A Practical Guide
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/analysing-thread-dumps-resolve-starvation-issues-practical-ugale-cxg4c/?trackingId=xjftKepwTi6HeNU3eDV48A%3D%3D

Understanding and Resolving Thread Blockages on socketRead0: A Guide to Improving Network Performance
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/understanding-resolving-thread-blockages-socketread0-guide-ugale-gjauc/?trackingId=xjftKepwTi6HeNU3eDV48A%3D%3D

Unlocking the Secrets of Thread Dumps: Analysing Threads in the WAITING State
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/unlocking-secrets-thread-dumps-analysing-threads-waiting-pratik-ugale-je5wc/?trackingId=xjftKepwTi6HeNU3eDV48A%3D%3D

Understanding Unsafe.park in Java Thread Dumps
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/understanding-unsafepark-java-thread-dumps-pratik-ugale-coivc/?trackingId=xjftKepwTi6HeNU3eDV48A%3D%3D

How do you interpret the stack trace of a thread in a thread dump
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/how-do-you-interpret-stack-trace-thread-dump-pratik-ugale-fhohc/?trackingId=xjftKepwTi6HeNU3eDV48A%3D%3D

Simple way to analyse java thread dump for high CPU utilisation thread
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/simple-way-analyse-java-thread-dump-high-cpu-pratik-ugale-nbdhc/?trackingId=xjftKepwTi6HeNU3eDV48A%3D%3D

Why we are collecting thread dump and different ways of thread dump collection in java
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/why-we-collecting-thread-dump-different-ways-collection-pratik-ugale-p8i5c/?trackingId=xjftKepwTi6HeNU3eDV48A%3D%3D


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## other topics 

Optimizing AWS Lambda Performance: Understanding Cold Starts and Provisioned Concurrency
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/optimizing-aws-lambda-performance-understanding-cold-starts-ugale-8yp1c/?trackingId=8ccmD76dTeCS6N2XrUvqIg%3D%3D

List of 25 Load runner functions which solved 80% of scripting challenges
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/list-25-load-runner-functions-which-solved-80-scripting-pratik-ugale-bbq6c/?trackingId=8ccmD76dTeCS6N2XrUvqIg%3D%3D

Understanding the Linux sar Utility: An Essential Tool for System Performance Monitoring
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/understanding-linux-sar-utility-essential-tool-system-pratik-ugale-tyywc/?trackingId=xjftKepwTi6HeNU3eDV48A%3D%3D

Identifying and Resolving CPU Bottlenecks Due to Hyper-Threading
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/identifying-resolving-cpu-bottlenecks-due-pratik-ugale-54bjc/?trackingId=xjftKepwTi6HeNU3eDV48A%3D%3D

How CPU affinity can impact performance. How would you configure CPU affinity for a process in Linux
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/how-cpu-affinity-can-impact-performance-would-you-configure-ugale-s2ydc/?trackingId=xjftKepwTi6HeNU3eDV48A%3D%3D

"The Ultimate Guide to CPU Analysis: Boosting Efficiency and Troubleshooting Performance"
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/ultimate-guide-cpu-analysis-boosting-efficiency-pratik-ugale-vywac/?trackingId=xjftKepwTi6HeNU3eDV48A%3D%3D

"Demystifying System Metrics Collection: Insights into How APM and Monitoring Tools Capture Linux Performance Data"
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/demystifying-system-metrics-collection-insights-how-apm-pratik-ugale-dyzac/?trackingId=xjftKepwTi6HeNU3eDV48A%3D%3D

Understanding Context Switching: Balancing Efficiency and Performance
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/understanding-context-switching-balancing-efficiency-pratik-ugale-nbhmc/?trackingId=xjftKepwTi6HeNU3eDV48A%3D%3D

Setting Up PetStore Application with Apache Tomcat for Performance Testing
https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/setting-up-petstore-application-apache-tomcat-testing-pratik-ugale-cbfmc/?trackingId=yU0PP7GoQ8GfpnECmZ6SQw%3D%3D



